We are asked to solve the proportion and we have 8/36 = 10/?
Now there is a bunch of different ways to solve this.
And I will explore all of them, not all, only good selection of them.
So one way to think about it is these two need
to be equivalent fractions.
So whatever happened
to the numerator also has to happen to the denominator.
So what do you have to multiply 8 by to get 10?
You could multiply 8  10/8 will definitely give you 10.
So we're multiplying by 10/8 over here.
Or another way to write 10/8 is the same thing as 5/4.
So we're multiplying by 5/4 to get from 8 to 10.
If we did that to the numerator
in order to have an equivalent fraction
you have to do the same thing to the denominator.
You have to multiply it times 5/4.
And so we can say that this n
is going to be equal to 36  5/4.
Or you could say that this is going to be equal to
365 divided by 4.
And now 36 divided by 4, we know what that is.
We can divide both the numerator and denominator by 4.
You divide the numerator by 4, you get 9.
Divide the denominator by 4, you get 1.  You get 45.
So that's one way to think about it.
8/36 = 10/45. Another way to think about it is,
what do we have to multiply 8 by to get its denominator?
How much larger is the denominator 36 than 8?
Let's just divide 36 over 8.
So 36/8 is the same thing as--
so we can simplify,
dividing the numerator and denominator by 4.
That's their greatest common divisor.
That's the same thing as 9/2.
If you multiply the numerator by 9/2,
you get the denominator.
Then we'll have to do the same thing over here.
If 36 is 9/2 times 8,  let me write this.  8  9/2 = 36.
That's how we go  from the numerator to the denominator.
Then to figure out what the denominator here is,
if we want the same fraction,
we'll have to multiply by 9/2 again.
So then we'll get 10  9/2 = n,
is going to be equal to this denominator.
And so this is the same thing as saying 109 / 2,
divide the numerator and denominator by 2,
you get 5/1 which is 45.  So 45 = n.
Once again we got the same way,
completely legitimate way to solve it.
Now sometimes when you see a proportion like this,
sometimes you'll say oh you could cross multiply.
And you can cross multiply and
I'll teach you how to do that.
And that's sometimes the quick way to do it.
But I don't like teaching it the first time
you look at proportions
because it's really just something mechanical.
You really don't understand what you're doing
and it really comes out of a little bit of algebra.
And I'll show you the algebra as well.
But if you don't understand it and
if it doesn't make as much sense to you at this point,
don't worry too much about it.
So we have 8/36 = 10/n.
When you cross multiply
you're saying that the numerator here
times the denominator over here is going to be equal to,
so 8n is going to be equal to
the denominator over here--
let me do this in a different colour--
the denominator over here
times the numerator over here.
This is what it means to cross multiply.
So this is going to be equal to 3610.
Or you could say, let me do this in a neutral colour now,
you could say that 8n = 360.
And so you're saying 8 times what is equal to 360.
Or to figure out what that times what is, you divide 360 divided by 8
So we can divide, and this is a little bit of algebra here,
we're dividing both sides of the equation by  8,
and we're getting n= 360/8.
And you know,
you can do that without thinking in strict algebraic terms.
You say 8 times what is 360?  Well, 8 times 360/8.
If I write 8 x ? = 360, well ? could definitely be 360/8.
If I multiply these out,
this guy and that guy cancel out and it's definitely 360.
And that's why it's 360/8.
But then we want to actually divide this
to actually get our right answer or a simplified answer.
8 goes into 360.
8 goes into 36 4 times.  4 times 8 is 32.
You have a remainder of 4.  Bring down the 0.
8 goes into 40 5 times.  5 times 8 is 40.
And then you have no remainder.  And you're done.
Once again we got n=45.
Now the last way I am going to show you
involves a little bit of algebra.
If any of the ways before this worked, that's fine.
And where this is sitting in the playlist
you're not expected to know the algebra.
But I want to show you the algebra
just because I want to show you
that this cross-multiplication isn't some magic.
That using algebra we will get this exact same thing.
But you could  stop watching this,
if you find this part confusing.
So let's rewrite our proportion.
8/36 = 10/n.  And we want to solve for n.
The easiest way to solve for n is maybe multiply both--
this thing on the left is equal to this thing on the right.
So we can multiply them both
by the same thing and the equality will still hold.
So we can multiply both of them by n.
On the right hand side, the n's cancel out.
On the left hand side we have 8/36  n = 10.
Now if we want to solve for n,
we can literally multiply if we want just an n here,
we would want to multiply this side times 36-
I'll do that in a different colour-
we would want to multiply this side times 36 times 8.
Because if you multiply these guys out,
you get 1 and you just have an n.
But since we're doing it to the left hand side,
we also have to do it to the right hand side.
So times 36/8.
These guys cancel out and we're left with n= 10  36 is 360/8
And notice we're getting the exact same value
that we got with cross multiplying.
And with cross multiplying, you're actually doing 2 steps.
You're actually doing an extra step here.
You're multiplying both sides by n so that you get 8n.
And then you're multiplying both sides
by 36 so that you get your 36 on both sides
and you get this value here.
But at the end when you simplify it,
you'll get the exact same answer.
Those are all different ways to solve this proportion.
Probably the most obvious way
or the easiest way to do it in your head
was either just looking at what you have to multiply the numerator by
and then doing the same thing to the denominator
or maybe by cross multiplication.